docs(tem): quickstart and how-tos (#942)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/generate-api-keys-for-tem-with-iam.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to generate API keys for API and SMTP sending with IAM
  description: This page explains how to generate API keys for API and SMTP sending with IAM
content:
  h1: How to generate API keys for API and SMTP sending with IAM
  paragraph: This page explains how to generate API keys for API and SMTP sending with IAM
dates:
  validation: 2022-11-07
  posted: 2022-11-07
---

This page shows you how to generate [API keys](/console/my-account/concepts/#api-key) wit IAM to send [transactional emails](/managed-services/transactional-email/concepts/#transactional-email) via API and SMTP.

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/).

>   - You are the Owner of your Organization, or an IAM user in an Organization where you have the [IAMManager or OrganizationManager](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/manage-users#how-to-view-and-delete-user-api-keys) permission set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You are the Owner of your Organization, or an IAM user in an Organization where you have the [IAMManager](/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) permission set.
```

  - You have a domain name.
  - You have [configured your domain with Transactional Email](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/configure-domain-with-transactional-email).
  - You have added [SPF, DKIM](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/add-spf-dkim-records-to-your-domain) and [MX records](/managed-services/transactional-email/how-to/add-mx-records-to-your-domain) to your domain.
</Message>

## Generate an API key using IAM and send emails via the API

To send your emails via the API, a valid API key and your Project's ID are required.

> 1. [Create an application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-application/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create an IAM application](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-application/).
```

> 2. [Create a policy](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-policy/) with an application as a principal type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Create a policy](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-policy/) giving appropriate [permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/reference-content/permission-sets/) to carry out actions for Transactional Email in the desired Project(s), with the IAM application attached as a principal.
```
